The tapes are on.
I want to get back to the White Otters of Childhood to wit the ending.
And I have the quotes here. I'm not a very good dramatic reader, so I won't read them dramatically.
But the quote is, at the end, I'm convinced that we are the freaks of the universe.
We were never meant to be. And then it goes on a little further and says,
we're an improper balance of stardust and dross, too much of one, not enough of the other.
That's an interesting summation, kind of pessimistic, although I pretty much agree with it.
Is that kind of your personal philosophy?
I would have to say that it may have been my personal philosophy at the time, although really, legitimately,
you would have to attribute it to the protagonist, Mark Cryer Reigns, who happens also to be the narrator.
I would say that no, it's not my particular philosophy any longer.
And that's partly because I think that there may be some significance behind everything.
And I'm continually in the process of looking for it.
A story of yours that was in a rather different vein was Robbed Tomato.
Again, the obvious question, the protagonist's name was Philip K.
Philip spelled with one L. Is this by any coincidence related to Philip K. Dick?
Oh, it's no coincidence.
Okay, I didn't think so from the tone of the story or from anything else.
I probably ought to say, however, that some people have seemed to think that the story
embodied a criticism of Philip K. Dick in some way, or a criticism of I think what it principally
embodied a criticism of or a satire of was stories that perhaps had two open or mystical and ending stories
that used the word rogue in the title, for one thing, I can think of a great number of science fiction stories
which used the word rogue in the title.
And I tried to think of something that I could conjoin with that word that would be just completely ludicrous.
And so I came up with a rogue tomato.
Okay, are you working on anything now to have plans?
What do we have to look forward to from you in the future?
No, I was hoping you would ask.
First of all, I have a short story, a second short story collection coming out from Arkham House
with an introduction by Tom Dish, Thomas Dish.
And that collection is entitled One Winter in Eden, and whereas my previous Arkham House and Pocket Books collection
was called Blooded on Arathi and consisted primarily of science fiction stories,
One Winter in Eden will consist of borderline mainstream stories, fantasies of one sort or another.
I really feel that it's a stronger collection than the first one.
In addition to that, Arkham House will be publishing later on in 1984 a novel of mine entitled Who Made Scravy Cry.
And that last word is spelled C-R-Y-E because cry is a surname.
And it happens to be a send-up of horror novels, which is a complete departure for me.
And I had a good time writing that particular book as well.
I don't know how it's going to be received because a number of publishers have not known exactly how to,
or did not know exactly what to make of it, how to market it,
because although it has some elements of a horror novel, it also very distinctly has parodic or satirical elements.
In addition to that, I'll be working on a novel this year for tour books for David Hartwell,
who will be working there on a freelance basis.
With this particular novel of mine, it's going to be an expansion, not really an expansion,
a continuation of a novella of mine published recently in Terry Carr's universe 13 called Her Habeline Husband.
And I think that the entire book will be called Her Habeline Husband as well.
And it reverses the situation in no enemy but time by bringing a proto-human or a hominid into the present day,
rather than by sending a contemporary human being back into Pleistocene, East Africa.
Okay, I said I only had two more questions, but I got to ask one more.
This is for my curiosity more than something we use on the show.
But you, Blooded on a Rackney, was published by Arkham House, and you mentioned it a couple of times as they're going to publish your new books.
You generally think of Arkham House, gee, that was H.P. Lovecraft's publisher and that sort of thing.
How did you get tied up with them since I can't think of any other science fiction writer?
I'm probably wrong, but...
Okay, so that through him now?
No, no, no, it wasn't through Greg Bear, but they have done Arkham House is changing directions to some extent.
And I don't think it's making everybody who is an Arkham House book collector entirely happy.
But I do think that it's doing a great deal, forgive me, to improve the quality of some of the work that comes out from Arkham House.
And this is a result of the editor there now, a man by the name of James, to me, Jim Turner.
I think along with David Hartwell, Jim Turner is one of the most astute and helpful editors working in the science fiction field today.
And he originally started out, of course, editing for Arkham House novels and stories in the Lovecraftian mold.
I think he has moved away from that in part because he finds it difficult to continue or to maintain an interest in that kind of fiction over a long period of time.
He sees that there is some interesting work being done in the science fiction field as well as in the horror field.
And he's interested in experimenting a little bit with hardcover publication of short stories that might not have otherwise had hardcover publication.
Because they had appeared originally in science fiction magazines or that sort of thing.
But my connection to Arkham House really right now is dependent upon the fact that Jim Turner likes my work a great deal and has been very helpful in putting together what I consider to be really pretty comprehensive collections of my short fiction.
Okay, I see. I'd wondered about that.
Well, that's all my questions then. So thanks for being patient with us through the non-working phone.
This interview has been a long time in the making. But I do appreciate getting to talk to you.
Well, I appreciate your calling too. I thought your questions were good questions. I hope my answers were reasonably good answers.
Okay, well, the answers were great. It's interesting because sometimes we have people, I'll come up here with 20 or so questions and ask them, I'll say yes, no.
And then sometimes the person will take 15 minutes to answer the first question. And so we have all kinds. And some people are extremely self-conscious because they realize they're being recorded and that sort of thing.
And I can understand that I would be too. But you sounded great. And I don't think we're going to have to do any editing. We're not going to have to cut out any you-knows or anything like that.
Let's see. Somebody, I think, Hart Waldrop, he said you know every other word. We had to cut that out.
Well, I've talked to Howard on the phone before too. I'm not sure I would have realized that he was saying a lot of you-knows.
Well, he's-
You understand? Listen, when you get on the phone and you know you're going to be recording- when you get in front of a tape recorder period, you begin to act a little bit differently.
Yeah, well we did him live at AggieCon. He's at every Texas convention, so we've gotten to know him pretty well. And we did him live.
And so I think it's probably worse because when you're on the phone, you're just there with yourself. But when it's live, there are these people listening to you and that sort of thing.
And of course, the other thing about the phone is that we can't give any feedback. And I realize talking when I can't give feedback, the kind of uh-huhs or something every once in a while, that makes it hard on both ends.
But we seem to be pretty successful with it. So once it improves, once the phone system works as it should, well then we don't have much trouble.
We had to get it- it had a major overhaul since we talked to you last.
Well you were much easier to hear this time. It was still a little distant, but not bad at all.
David said thousands of dollars worth of work. Okay. I wanted to ask you a favor. Sometimes people do this, sometimes people don't. So it doesn't matter.
Could I send you a couple books with the return postage and get them signed?
Oh, I'd be happy to.
Fantastic.
Send the return postage. How could I possibly refuse?
Okay. If one of them happened to be a funeral for the eyes of fire, would you go ahead and send it back?
I would sign it.
Okay. Okay. I would want to get it. Okay.
Okay. I've enjoyed talking to you.
Thank you. I enjoyed it very much.
Good night.
Bye-bye now.
Bye-bye.